Softwareentwicklung im Bereich Data Engineering, Python, PHP,
Postgresql, Mysql, High performance
Top-Skills: python, postgresql, agile, mysql, project
management, leadership, php, spryker, data
engineering
Verfügbar ab: 02.08.2021
verfügbar zu: 100 %
davon vor Ort: 60 %
Stundensatz: 70,00 EUR
Einsatzort
Regionen &amp; Länder: D0, D1, D2, D3, D4, D5, D6, D7, D8, D9,
Österreich, Schweiz
Kontaktwunsch: Ich möchte bevorzugt für Projekte in diesen Einsatzorten kontaktiert
werden.
Projekte
2019-07 - 2020-10 Bank Backend System
1 Jahr 4 Monate
Rolle: Engineering Manager / Lead Engineer
Einsatzort: Barcelona / Kosovo / Zurich
Projektinhalte: Mobile Banking Plattform
Projekt: Neuentwicklung Banking-Software
Rolle: Engineering Manager
    •  Konzeption der Architektur der Core Backend-Software für die
     ?neue Banking Plattform
    •  Rekrutierung und Führung eines 10-köpfigen Engineering Teams
     ?für Python, iOS und Android Entwicklung
    •  Requirements Engineering
    •  Verantwortung für Entwicklung eines Prototypen von der Idee bis
     ?zur Einsatzfähigkeit
    •  Code Reviews
    •  Eigenständige Entwicklung der Kernelemente der Software
    •  Testing (Unit, funktional, behavioural)
    •  Agiles Projektmanagement
Technologien: Python, iOS, Android, AWS, RDS Aurora, Terraform, Docker,
AWS Fargate, Security Groups, AWS
17.02.2023 1 von 4
Secrets
Kenntnisse: Python, iOS, Android, AWS, RDS Aurora, Terraform, Docker, AWS Fargate,
Security Groups, AWS  Secrets
Eingesetzte Produkte: Python, iOS, Android, AWS, RDS Aurora, Terraform, Docker, AWS Fargate,
Security Groups, AWS  Secrets
2018-06 - 2019-06 Management of product data pipeline
1 Jahr 1 Monat
Rolle: Softwareengineer, DevOps
Kunde: Mediamarkt-Saturn
Einsatzort: Ingolstadt / Remote
Projektinhalte: Für den Kunden MMS habe ich folgende Dienstleistungen erbracht:
- Aufnahme der komplexen und gewachsenen Prozesse zur Annahme und
Verteilung aller Produktdaten im Unternehmen (12 Landesgesellschaften, 2
Brands)
- Überführung in eine wartbarere Lösung zur Verteilung, Validierung,
Anreicherung der Produktdaten (~200.000
Produktinformationsänderungen pro Tag) mittels Apache NiFi
- Programmierung in Python &amp; Java
- DevOps (Serverprobleme debuggen, deployments, etc)
- Refactoring eines internen Tools (basierend auf Django) 
Eine hohe Effizienzsteigerung der Abteilung war der Output der Beratungs-
und Implementierungsleistung. Von anfangs 4 Entwicklern wurden nur
noch 2 benötigt durch die Reduktion der beweglichen Teile in der
Systemlandschaft.
Kenntnisse: Scrum, Python, Oracle/SQL, Java, Apache NiFi, git, Stibo Step
Eingesetzte Produkte: PyCharm
Lead Data Engineer, OneFineStay, London — April 2016 - January 2018
As lead data engineer at OFS I took a project on with special requirements: my job was it to turn a
40.000 LOCs data pipeline of python 2 to a future ready self serve data platform. In accordance with
all stakeholders and the Data Team I re-implemented over a course of 6 month into an Apache
Airflow based, robust solution in python 3 while using as much AWS services as economic efficiency
allows. A good portion of the time there was also spent training the data scientists in good
programming skills, dimensional modeling and improving their SQL skills. Further more did I take
care of the DevOps setup, daily administration tasks, stakeholder management and the
implementation of new features and data integration projects. Another part of my responsibility was
to create an internal website where every employee of the company can access the data easily and
in accordance with data protection rules, including documentation, announcements, several self-
serve data export mechanisms and many more things.
The intranet website was made with python3, ReactJS. The DWH itself initially a MySQL instance
moved to AWS Redshift.
I am especially proud of a migration tool for Excel spreadsheets, automatically „translating“ MySQL
queries to AWS Redshift queries in the new table/cube design wherever possible. This was applied to
3,500 Excel spreadsheets with a successful conversion of ~90%, saving over roughly 2000 man
hours of training and self guided translation by the employees.
Lead Data Engineer, Spryker Systems, Berlin — June 2015 - December 2015
Spryker Systems is the externalized eCommerce Framework originally from Project A Ventures. My
17.02.2023 2 von 4
role here was to create a modern logging infrastructure that is flexible enough for our clients (like
siroop.ch) to log thousands of requests per second without a reduction of the overall performance.
Another project was the kickoff work for an integrated recommendation system within the spryker
framework. Researching neural networks and genetic algorithms to determine the best
recommendations on a per user basis.
Freelance Lead Data Engineer, Worldremit.com, London — August 2014 - May 2015
At Worldremit my task was to maintain and expand an existing data warehouse infrastructure
including the administration and tuning of database software like Postgresql and MSSQL and the
consumption of payment reporting APIs for further data processing, as well as the integration of
Tableau as the primary reporting interface for the business.
Used technology: PostgreSQL, Python, PHP5, MSSQL
Senior Software Engineer, Saatchi Art, Los Angeles (USA) — July 2013-July 2014
At Saatchi I was responsible for the Zed e-commerce software, maintaining the existing legacy
codebase and leading the development of the Data Warehouse.
DevOps work.
Tools used: PostgreSQL / Hive / RJMetrics (DWH) , MySQL, MongoDB, Couchbase &amp; Amazon
DynamoDB (legacy), Mainly PHP and Go, Amazon ElasticMapReduce and other Amazon Webservices,
Recommendation engine project with Neo4J (Graphdatabase)
CTO &amp; Co-Founder, PeakMaven, Berlin — January - July 2013
PeakMaven was a Start Up project to control, display and optimize the online marketing ROI with
different statistical models. Motto: „get more bang out of the buck“.
Tools used: Django, Python, MySQL Cluster, D3js (Charts), Bootstrap (Frontend)
Freelance Senior Software Engineer, Hellofresh, Berlin, Porto (PT) — August - November 2012
Leading and hiring team members, implementing the relaunch project for 8 country websites.
Freelance Senior Software Engineer, Rocket Internet, Berlin — August 2011 - August 2012
Working to launch 40+ e-commerce websites in 15 different countries. Building up developer teams
in New Delhi, India or flying to Sao Paolo to launch localized versions of Rocket’s e-commerce
venture dafiti in Argentina and Chile.
Branchen
Venture Capital support
Digital Incubators
Verlage
öffentliche Einrichtungen
"Erwachsenen Unterhaltung"
Finanzbranche
Sprachen
Deutsch Muttersprache
Englisch
Kompetenzen
Produkte / Standards / Apache NiFi
Erfahrungen / Methoden
17.02.2023 3 von 4
AWS
AWS
git
iOS
iOS
PyCharm
Scrum
Stibo Step
Betriebssysteme Android
Android
FreeBSD, Linux, OpenBSD, Windows (XP-7), Mac OSX.
Programmiersprachen Java
Oracle/SQL
Python
PHP (Experte)
Python (Experte)
Javascript/Ecma Script (Fortgeschritten)
HTML, CSS (...) 
Datenbanken
MySQL
MSSQL
PostgreSQL
SQLite
Oracle
Cassandra
Hardware
PC, Mac
Design / Entwicklung /
Konstruktion
OO
Softwarepattern
SOLID / DRY / YAGNI
Refactoring
Aus- und Weiterbildung
Ausbildung zum Fachinformatiker Fachrichtung Anwendungsentwicklung abgeschlossen.
17.02.2023 4 von 4

############################################